
Conditional Statements in Python
Conditional statements in Python allow you to execute different blocks of code based on whether a condition is True or False. 
These are essential for decision-making processes in programming. Python supports several types of conditional statements: if, if-else, and if-elif-else.

1. if Statement:
The if statement is used to test a condition. If the condition evaluates to True, the code inside the if block is executed. If the condition is False, the code inside the if block is skipped.

Syntax:

if condition:
    # block of code
condition: This is an expression that will evaluate to either True or False.
If the condition evaluates to True, the block of code (indented) will execute.
If the condition evaluates to False, the block is skipped.

Example:

age = 18
if age >= 18:
    print("You are an adult.")
If age is greater than or equal to 18, the message "You are an adult." is printed.
If age is less than 18, nothing happens, and the program continues.


2. if-else Statement:
The if-else statement is used when you want to execute one block of code if the condition is True, and a different block of code if the condition is False.

Syntax:
if condition:
    # block of code executed if condition is True
else:
    # block of code executed if condition is False
If the condition evaluates to True, the code inside the if block is executed.
If the condition evaluates to False, the code inside the else block is executed.

Example:

age = 16
if age >= 18:
    print("You are an adult.")
else:
    print("You are a minor.")
If age is 18 or more, the program prints "You are an adult.".
If age is less than 18, it prints "You are a minor.".


3. if-elif-else Statement:
The if-elif-else statement allows you to check multiple conditions. If the first condition is False, Python will check the next condition specified by elif. 
If none of the if or elif conditions evaluate to True, the else block will execute.

Syntax:
if condition1:
    # block of code if condition1 is True
elif condition2:
    # block of code if condition2 is True
else:
    # block of code if none of the above conditions are True
elif: Short for "else if," this checks another condition if the previous if or elif condition was False.
else: This block executes if none of the conditions before it were True.

Example:
score = 85
if score >= 90:
    print("Grade A")
elif score >= 80:
    print("Grade B")
elif score >= 70:
    print("Grade C")
else:
    print("Grade F")
If score is 90 or higher, the program prints "Grade A".
If score is between 80 and 89, it prints "Grade B".
If score is between 70 and 79, it prints "Grade C".
If score is below 70, it prints "Grade F".


Flow of Conditional Statements:
The flow of execution for conditional statements is as follows:

The if statement is evaluated first. If it's True, the associated block of code runs, and the program skips the rest of the elif or else blocks.
If the if condition is False, Python checks the next elif (if present).
If no if or elif conditions are True, the program moves to the else block (if present).
If no else block is present, the program simply skips the remaining code.
